17/8

8: Abundance and Power

7: Trust and Openness

1: Creativity and Confidence

Understanding Life Purpose

Those on the 17/8 life path are here to work through issues related to
money, power, and spirit; as they come to trust the creative spirit
inside them and share that spirit with others, they realize abundance
and inner power. Since our life path always involves challenges,
before 17/8s can fulfill their destiny, they have to confront and
overcome conflicting drives, fears, and beliefs about money and power,
develop deeper trust in themselves and in Spirit, and access
confidence and creativity. For 17/8s or any 8s, sharing abundance
doesn't require that they be wealthy; even someone making a modest
income can share a few dollars, some time, some energy, or even a
bountiful spirit of generosity.

Although the more inner-directed 7 energy and the more outer-directed
8 energy might seem to pull in opposite directions, no such opposition
exists when 17/8s work in the positive. As 17/8s begin to trust Spirit
working through them, an underlying burden of paranoia and fear lifts,
opening them to an expansiveness that attracts and generates the
abundance that flows naturally from their creative energy. In other
words, 17/8s must work through the issue of 7 energy in order to
attract a full measure of fulfillment, no matter what the actual scale
of their finances.

Although 8 has a certain solidity and grounded materialism about it,
the combination of 1 and 7 often gives to 17/8s the charisma of a
"creative nature spirit'—light, airy, imaginative, and glowing. The 8
keeps them grounded and connected to Earth. Their more uplifted,
inward, and spiritual energies can serve to balance and complement the
8 drive for recognition, wealth, and power. If 17/8s are working in
the negative, however, their inward 7 energy conflicts with and
sabotages their energy as they withdraw from life and the outer work
necessary to succeed. Most 8s have subtle tendencies to suppress their
power; if they don't trust themselves to step forward into the world,
they may accomplish nothing.

Nevertheless, 1 tends to attract money; it has a "lucky" quality about
it. When 17/8s let their creative energy flow into the world and begin
to have a stronger sense of their spiritual side and the spiritual
aspects of the world, money and influence come to them almost as if by
magic.

In addition, the creativity of 1 plus the mental acuity of 7, along
with the powerful intelligence of 8, serve to create some of the most
insightful, original, and even brilliant thinkers around. In the
positive, 17/8s have no shortage of ideas to reach their goals.

The 7, however, can exacerbate subconscious fears or avoidance of
money or power; if 17/8s don't trust themselves overall, they are less
likely to trust themselves with money or power, increasing the 8
tendency toward self-sabotage. Most 17/8s appear upbeat on the
outside, but they have a difficult time knowing how to express
themselves in the material world.

Whether or not they feel religious or spiritual, 17/8s are here to
combine inner growth and inspiration with very practical goals in the
material world. For example, some 17/8s might decide to combine their
interest in spirituality with material success by opening a bookstore
specializing in uplifting, spiritual, or self-help themes and serving
as a gathering place for many people. Not all 17/8s run such
businesses, of course, but eventually they find the confidence and
trust to create something that inspires themselves and others; in
other words, they make good money, doing what they enjoy, in service
of others.

All 17/8s need to acknowledge rather than repress the drive they have
for recognition and influence; they can enjoy playing in the material
realm without 10sing sight of the reality that material success is
empty without a higher purpose.

Working 17/8 in the Positive

These delightful and usually delighted individuals have bridged the
worlds of business and spirit, combining an abiding, transcendental
trust in themselves and in the world to direct them wherever they need
to go. Trusting a higher power than their own, these spirited
innovators find their own power as well, and they help empower and
uplift others. They enjoy a sense of abundance that flows forth,
attracted by their uplifting energy. As this energy moves into the
world in service, and they use mind and money for higher purposes,
whatever they do in the name of Spirit comes back in the form of
further blessings.

Working 17/8 in the Negative

Insecure, withdrawn, and afraid of confrontation, these individuals
feel baffled by the world. They want recognition, fear betrayal, and
feel that something is missing—the spiritual side of their
life. Over-controlling, they often feel mistrust in business dealings,
and they have unexpressed inner conflicts about the morality of
money. Pulled between inner and outer drives, they have a hard time
being on the planet, in the sense of knowing what to do here. Although
they may seem outgoing, they don't really share themselves or their
very private inner processes. With the mental qualities of 7s and the
power issues of 8s, they inadvertently talk over people's heads or
sound preachy. They lack faith in the powers of self or Spirit.
Life-Path Issues Health

The heart area of many 17/8s is sensitive to the degree they have
unresolved trust issues or charged memories of betrayal. If working
the negative aspects of 8 energy, 17/8s may engage in subconscious
self-sabotage, which may include physical mishaps. If their creative
energy feels blocked or suppressed, the lower abdomen, reproductive
area, or lower back may flare up.

A key for 17/8s involves exercise that gives them a sense of personal
power and expansiveness, involves some form of skill practice to help
them trust themselves, and keeps their creative energy
flowing. Meditation also benefits 17/8 as a calming and grounding
influence, giving their mind a rest.

With the subconscious c10se to the surface for many 17/8s, they need
to balance physical discipline with a little self-pampering, including
indulgent but healthful activities, such as regular massage, swims, or
saunas (depending upon the climate), which help nourish and recharge
them.

Unless 17/8s feel securely grounded in their physical body rather than
identified with their mind, they may not pay sufficient attention to
what they eat, although they are likely to be aware of nutritional
guidelines. They can get so busy with creative or business projects
that they don't make time for regular, relaxed meals. When they do, a
light, low-fat, mostly vegetarian diet is optimal for 17/8s, who
thrive on such a regimen.

Relationships

The quality of relationships for 17/8s depends upon whether they are
working in the positive or negative, especially with regard to 7
energy. Most of these individuals require some time to trust and open
enough for emotional intimacy. When working in the positive, they can
even achieve a spiritual intimacy; until then, their spouse or partner
may say, "I never feel like I know who you really are or what you're
feeling." But 7s and 8s can feel uncomfortable revealing their inner
life, fearing shame, vulnerability, or both. Power struggles can also
arise, because 17/8s often act rigid and controlling when feeling
insecure. Most 17/8s, at one time or another, give away their power or
assertiveness due to a lack of self-trust and a fear of power; then
they want to take their power back, but they aren't always sure how to
balance it. They need to learn to share their inner sense of power and
empower others.

Sexual issues are highly dependent on how 17/8s manifest 7 energy—that
is, whether they feel open or inhibited. If they feel open, their
creative juices translate into active sexual needs, so barring
childhood traumas, sex isn't generally a problem for 17/8s; intimacy
is. As they refine and transform their trust and power issues,
relationships become a stronger priority in their lives, furnishing
the means to feel a deeper sense of connection.

Talents, Work, and Finances

Nearly all 17/8s have a powerful, insightful mind and inherent drive
for success; this, along with their creative potential, provides the
fuel for successful endeavors in a variety of fields ranging from
sports to politics. They make excellent financial analysts or heads of
service organizations, reaching out to many, doing public work in a
private way. Eventually, some 17/8s will become philanthropists,
perhaps even starting charitable foundations, small or large. Or they
may open a bookstore or other business that allows them to serve
others.

When 17/8s trust their intuition and make creative decisions on that
basis, money just seems to show up, and they become extremely
successful without knowing why or how.

Some Well-Known 17/8s

Millard Fillmore            Adlai Stevenson

Roberta Flack               Edward Villella

Timothy Leary              Johnny Weissmuller

Mickey Mantle             Brigham Young Jack Nicklaus

Keys to Fulfilling Your Destiny

If you are working 17/8, this section can help you manifest your life
purpose by focusing your attention on core issues and by generating
specific action to transform key areas of your life.

Guidelines and Recommendations

    Trust that abundance will flow from your creative efforts,
    
    Focus on service, not money.
    
    Find a source of power and abundance through meditation.
    
    Consider creating a means of livelihood that in some way combines
    business with personal growth, healing, or spiritual pursuits.

Useful Questions

1.       Reflect on the following questions:

·         •                           In what way might my work serve a higher purpose?

·         •                         Do I share my abundance with others?

·         •                          Do I trust my own inner feelings? Do I trust my power?

·         •                          Can I find creative ways to bring people together?

2.       If these questions generate any insights, how might you put these insights into practice?

Deepening Your Understanding

Turn to Part Two and reread the main sections covering the digits that
make up your birth number: 1 (p. 31), 7 (p. 78), and 8 (p. 87).

You may wish to review birth numbers of family and friends and, if
they are open to it, discuss similar or different issues in your
lives.

Spiritual Laws: The Leverage to Change Your Life

1.      Read about each of the following laws in Part Four:

·         The Law of Faith (p. 369): Only when we find faith in ourselves can we have faith in others.

·         The Law of Expectations (p. 373): Our fife unfolds according to our hidden expectations and assumptions.

·         The Law of Intuition (p. 385): As we recognize the spirit within us, we look inside for guidance.

·         The Law of Honesty (p. 377): Honesty with ourselves opens the way to trusting our feelings.

·         The Law of Higher Will (p. 381): Our willingness to serve a higher purpose can inspire us on our path.

2.      Do the exercises you find for each of these laws.

3.      Consider how you might apply each law to your life.
